Update caching (#10027)
mdn/content: files/en-us/web/http/headers/cache-control/index.md

  - Reference
browser-compat: http.headers.Cache-Control
---

{{HTTPSidebar}}

> The **`Cache-Control`** HTTP header field holds _directives_ (instructions) in both requests and responses that control [caching](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Caching) in browsers and shared caches (e.g. Proxies, CDNs).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`Cache-Control`** HTTP header field holds _directives_ (instructions) — in both requests and responses — that control [caching](/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Caching) in browsers and shared caches (e.g. Proxies, CDNs).
```

Caching directives follow the validation rules below:

> - Case-insensitive, but lowercase is recommended, since some implementations do not recognise uppercase directives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Case-insensitive — but lowercase is recommended, since some implementations do not recognize uppercase directives.
```

| `max-age`        | `max-age`                |
| `max-stale`      | -                        |
| `min-fresh`      | -                        |
| -                | `s-maxage`               |
| `no-cache`       | `no-cache`               |
| `no-store`       | `no-store`               |
| `no-transform`   | `no-transform`           |
| `only-if-cached` | -                        |
| -                | `must-revalidate`        |
| -                | `proxy-revalidate`       |
| -                | `must-understand`        |
| -                | `private`                |
| -                | `public`                 |
| -                | `immutable`              |
| -                | `stale-while-revalidate` |
| `stale-if-error` | `stale-if-error`         |

Note: Check the [compatibility table](#browser_compatibility) for their support; user agents that don't recognize them should ignore them.

## Vocabulary

The following terms are used in this document; many but not all are from the specification.

- `(HTTP) Caches`
  - : Implementation which holds requests and responses for reusing in subsequent requests. May be either a shared or private cache.
- `Shared Cache`

>   - : Caches that exists between the origin server and clients (e.g. Proxy, CDN) It stores a single response and reuses it with multiple users, so developers should avoid storing personalized contents to be cached in the shared cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - : Cache that exists between the origin server and clients (e.g. Proxy, CDN). It stores a single response and reuses it with multiple users — so developers should avoid storing personalized contents to be cached in the shared cache.
```

> - `(HTTP) Caches`
>   - : Implementation which holds requests and responses for reusing in subsequent requests. May be either a shared or private cache.
> - `Shared Cache`
>   - : Cache that exists between the origin server and clients (e.g. Proxy, CDN). It stores a single response and reuses it with multiple users — so developers should avoid storing personalized contents to be cached in the shared cache.
> - `Private Cache`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `(HTTP) cache`
  - : Implementation which holds requests and responses for reusing in subsequent requests. May be either a shared or private cache.
- `Shared cache`
  - : Cache that exists between the origin server and clients (e.g. Proxy, CDN). It stores a single response and reuses it with multiple users — so developers should avoid storing personalized contents to be cached in the shared cache.
- `Private cache`
```

> - `Private Cache`
>   - : Caches that exists in the client. Also called _local cache_, or even just _browser cache_ etc. It can store and reuse personalized content for a single user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `Private Cache`
  - : Cache that exists in the client. Also called _local cache_, or even just _browser cache_, etc. It can store and reuse personalized content for a single user.
```

- `Store response`
  - : Store a response in caches when it's cacheable. But it's not always reused as-is. (Usually "cache" means storing a response.)
- `Reuse response`
  - : Reuse cached responses for subsequent requests.
- `Revalidate response`
  - : Ask the origin server whether the stored response is still fresh or not. Usually it's done through a conditional request.
- `Fresh response`
  - : Indicates that the response is fresh. This usually means the response can be reused for subsequent requests, depending on request directives.
- `Stale response`
  - : Indicates that the response is stale. It usually means the response can't be reused as-is. Cache storage isn't required to remove stale responses immediately, because revalidation could change the response from being stale to being fresh again.
- `Age`
  - : The time since a response was generated. It is a criterion for whether a response is fresh or stale.

## Directives

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section lists directives that affect caching — both response directives and request directives.
```

- `Age`
  - : The time since a response was generated. It is a criterion for whether a response is fresh or stale.

## Directives
This section lists directives that affect caching — both response directives and request directives.

### Response Directives

#### `max-age`

The `max-age=N` response directive indicates that the response remains fresh until _N_ seconds after the response is generated.

```
Cache-Control: max-age=604800
```

Indicates that caches can store this response and reuse it for subsequent requests while it's fresh.

Note that `max-age` is not the elapsed time since the response was received, but instead the elapsed time since the response was generated on the origin server. So if the other cache(s) on the path the response takes store it for 100 seconds (indicated using the `Age` response header field), the browser cache would deduct 100 seconds from its freshness lifetime.

```
Cache-Control: max-age=604800
Age: 100
```

#### `s-maxage`

> The `s-maxage` response directive also indicate how long the response is fresh for (similar to `max-age`), but it is specific to shared caches, and they will ignore `max-age` when it is present. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `s-maxage` response directive also indicates how long the response is fresh for (similar to `max-age`) — but it is specific to shared caches, and they will ignore `max-age` when it is present. 
```

```
Cache-Control: s-maxage=604800
```

#### `no-cache`

> The `no-cache` response directive indicates that the response can be stored in caches, but must be validated with the origin server before each reuse -- even when the cache is disconnected from the origin server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `no-cache` response directive indicates that the response can be stored in caches, but must be validated with the origin server before each reuse — even when the cache is disconnected from the origin server.
```

If you forget to add `private` to a response with personalized content, then that response can be stored in a shared cache and end up being used by multiple users, which can cause personal information to leak.

#### `public`

Responses for requests with `Authorization` header fields must not be stored in a shared cache. But the `public` directive will cause such responses to be stored in a shared cache.

```
Cache-Control: public
```

In general, when pages are under Basic Auth or Digest Auth, the browser sends requests with the `Authorization` header. That means the response is access-controlled for restricted users (who have accounts), and it's fundamentally not shared-cacheable, even if it has `max-age`.

You can use the `public` directive to unlock that restriction.

```
Cache-Control: public, max-age=604800
```

Note that, `s-maxage` or `must-revalidate` also unlock that restriction.

If a request doesn’t have an `Authorization` header, or you are already using `s-maxage` or `must-revalidate` in the response, then you don't need to use `public`.

#### `must-understand`

> The `must-understand` response directive indicates that caches should store the response only if it understands the requirements for caching based on status code.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `must-understand` response directive indicates that a cache should store the response only if it understands the requirements for caching based on status code.
```

`must-understand` should be coupled with `no-store`, for fallback behavior.

```
Cache-Control: must-understand, no-store
```

> If the caches doesn't support `must-understand`, it will be ignored. If `no-store` is also present, the response isn't stored.
> 
> If the caches supports `must-understand`, it stores the response with an understanding of cache requirements based on its status code.
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a cache doesn't support `must-understand`, it will be ignored. If `no-store` is also present, the response isn't stored.

If a cache supports `must-understand`, it stores the response with an understanding of cache requirements based on its status code.

```

#### `no-transform`

Some intermediaries transform content for various reasons. For example, some convert images to reduce transfer size. In some cases, this is undesirable for the content provider.

`no-transform` indicates that any intermediary (regardless of whether it implements a cache) shouldn't transform the response contents.

Note: [Google’s Web Light](https://support.google.com/webmasters/answer/6211428) is one kind of such an intermediary. It converts images to minimize data for a cache store or slow connection, and supports `no-transform` as an opt-out option.

#### `immutable`

The `immutable` response directive indicates that the response will not be updated while it's fresh.

```
Cache-Control: public, max-age=604800, immutable
```

> A modern best practice for static resources is to include version/hashes in their URLs, while never modifying the resources, but instead, when necessary, _updating_ the resources with newer versions that have new version-numbers/hashes, so that their URLs). That’s called the **cache-busting** pattern.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A modern best practice for static resources is to include version/hashes in their URLs, while never modifying the resources — but instead, when necessary, _updating_ the resources with newer versions that have new version-numbers/hashes, so that their URLs are different. That’s called the **cache-busting** pattern.
```

```
<script src=https://example.com/react.0.0.0.js></script>
```

> When a user reloads the browser, browsers will send conditional requests for validating to the origin server. But it's not necessary to revalidate these kinds of static resources even when a user reloads the browser, because they're never modified.
> `immutable` tells caches that its response is immutable while it's fresh, and avoids these kinds of unnecessary conditional requests to the server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a user reloads the browser, the browser will send conditional requests for validating to the origin server. But it's not necessary to revalidate those kinds of static resources even when a user reloads the browser, because they're never modified.
`immutable` tells a cache that the response is immutable while it's fresh, and avoids those kinds of unnecessary conditional requests to the server.
```

When you use a cache-busting pattern for resources and apply them to a long `max-age`, you can also add `immutable` to avoid revalidation.

#### `stale-while-revalidate`

The `stale-while-revalidate` response directive indicates that the cache could reuse a stale response while it revalidates it to a cache.

```
Cache-Control: max-age=604800, stale-while-revalidate=86400
```

> In the example above, the response is fresh for 7 days (604800s). After 7 days, it becomes stale but the cache is allowed to reuse it for any requests that are made in the following day (86400s), provided that they revalidate the response in the background.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the example above, the response is fresh for 7 days (604800s). After 7 days, it becomes stale but the cache is allowed to reuse it for any requests that are made in the following day (86400s) — provided that they revalidate the response in the background.
```

> Revalidation will make the cache be fresh again, so it appears to clients that it was always fresh during that period -- effectively hiding the latency penalty of revalidation from them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Revalidation will make the cache be fresh again, so it appears to clients that it was always fresh during that period — effectively hiding the latency penalty of revalidation from them.
```

If no request happened during that period, the cache became stale and the next request will revalidate normally.

#### `stale-if-error`

> The `stale-if-error` response directive indicates that the cache could reuse a stale response when an origin server responds with an error (500, 502, 503, or 504).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `stale-if-error` response directive indicates that the cache can reuse a stale response when an origin server responds with an error (500, 502, 503, or 504).
```

```
Cache-Control: max-age=604800, stale-if-error=86400
```

In the example above, the response is fresh for 7 days (604800s). After 7 days it becomes stale, but it can be used for an extra 1 day (86400s) if the server responds with an error.

After a period of time, the stored response became stale normally. That means the client will receive an error response as-is if the origin server sends it.

## Request Directives

### `no-cache`

The `no-cache` request directive asks caches to validate the response with the origin server before reuse.

```
Cache-Control: no-cache
```

`no-cache` allows clients to request the most up-to-date response even if the cache has a fresh response.

> Browser usually add `no-cache` to requests when users are **force reloading** a page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Browsers usually add `no-cache` to requests when users are **force reloading** a page.
```

```
Cache-Control: no-store
```

Note that the major browsers do not support requests with `no-store`.

### `max-age`

The `max-age=N` request directive indicates that the client allows a stored response that is generated on the origin server within _N_ seconds.

```
Cache-Control: max-age=3600
```

In the case above, if the response with `Cache-Control: max-age=604800` was stored in caches 3 hours ago, the cache couldn't reuse that response.

Many browsers use this directive for **reloading**, as explained below.

```
Cache-Control: max-age=0
```

`max-age=0` is a workaround for `no-cache`, because many old (HTTP/1.0) cache implementations don't support `no-cache`. Recently browsers are still using `max-age=0` in "reloading" — for backward compatibility — and alternatively using `no-cache` to cause a "force reloading".

### `max-stale`

The `max-stale=N` request directive indicates that the client allows a stored response that is stale within _N_ seconds.

```
Cache-Control: max-stale=3600
```

In the case above, if the response with `Cache-Control: max-age=604800` was stored on caches 3 hours ago, the cache couldn't reuse that response.

> Clients could use this header when the origin server is down or too slow and could accept cached responses from caches even if it's a bit old.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clients can use this header when the origin server is down or too slow and can accept cached responses from caches even if they are a bit old.
```

Note that the major browsers do not support requests with `max-stale`.

### `min-fresh`

The `min-fresh=N` request directive indicates that the client allows a stored response that is fresh for at least _N_ seconds.

```
Cache-Control: min-fresh=600
```

In the case above, if the response with `Cache-Control: max-age=3600` was stored in caches 51 minutes ago, the cache couldn't reuse that response.

> Clients could use this header when the user requires not only it's fresh but also it wouldn't update for a period of time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clients can use this header when the user requires the response to not only be fresh, but also requires that it  won't be updated for a period of time.
```

Note that the major browsers do not support requests with `min-fresh`.

### `no-transform`

Same meaning that `no-transform` has for a response, but for a request instead.

### `only-if-cached`

> The client indicates for caches to obtain an already-cached response. If caches has stored a response, it’s reused.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The client indicates that cache should obtain an already-cached response. If a cache has stored a response, it’s reused.
```

## Use Cases

### Preventing storing

If you don’t want a response stored in caches, use the `no-store` directive.

```
Cache-Control: no-store
```

> Note that `no-cache` means "it can be stored but don't reuse before validating", so it's not for preventing to store a response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note that `no-cache` means "it can be stored but don't reuse before validating" — so it's not for preventing a response from being stored.
```

```plain example-bad
Cache-Control: no-cache
```

In theory, if directives are conflicted, the most restrictive directive should be honored. So the example below is basically meaningless, because `private`, `no-cache`, `max-age=0` and `must-revalidate` conflict with `no-store`.

```plain example-bad
# conflicted
Cache-Control: private, no-cache, no-store, max-age=0, must-revalidate

# equivalant to
Cache-Control: no-store
```

### Caching static assets with “cache busting”

> When you build static assets with versioning / hashing mechanisms, adding a version/hash to the filename or query string is a good way to manage caching.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you build static assets with versioning/hashing mechanisms, adding a version/hash to the filename or query string is a good way to manage caching.
```

For example:

```html
<!-- index.html —>
<script src=/assets/react.min.js></script>
<img src=/assets/hero.png width=900 height=400>
```

The React library version will change when you update the library, and `hero.png` will also change when you edit the picture. So those are hard to store in a cache with `max-age`.

In such a case, you could address the caching needs by using a specific, numbered version of the library, and including the hash of the picture in its URL.

```html
<!-- index.html —>
<script src=/assets/react.0.0.0min.js></script>
<img src=/assets/hero.png?hash=deadbeef width=900 height=400>
```

You can add a long `max-age` value, and `immutable`, because the content will never change.

```
# /assets/*
Cache-Control: max-age=31536000, immutable
```

When you update the library or edit the picture, new content should have a new URL, and caches aren't reused. That is called the “cache busting” pattern.

Use a long `max-age` to make sure that the HTML response itself is not cached. `no-cache` could cause revalidation, and the client will correctly receive a new version of the HTML response and static assets.

```
# /index.html
Cache-Control: no-cache
```

> Note: If `index.html` is controlled under Basic / Digest Authentication, files under `/assets` are not stored in the shared cache. If `/assets/` files are suitable for storing in a shared cache, you also need one of `public`, `s-maxage` or `must-revalidate`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Note: If `index.html` is controlled under Basic Authentication or Digest Authentication, files under `/assets` are not stored in the shared cache. If `/assets/` files are suitable for storing in a shared cache, you also need one of `public`, `s-maxage` or `must-revalidate`.
```

### Up-to-date contents always

For content that’s generated dynamically, or that’s static but updated often, you want a user to always receive the most up-to-date version.

> 
> If you don't add a `Cache-Control` header because the response is not intended to be cached, that could cause an unexpected result. Cache storage is allowed to cache it heuristically, so if you have any requirements on caching, you should always indicate it explicitly, in the `Cache-Control` header.
> 
> Adding `no-cache` to the response causes revalidation to the server, so you can serve a fresh response every time or if the client already has a new one, just response `304 Not Modified`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

If you don't add a `Cache-Control` header because the response is not intended to be cached, that could cause an unexpected result. Cache storage is allowed to cache it heuristically — so if you have any requirements on caching, you should always indicate them explicitly, in the `Cache-Control` header.

Adding `no-cache` to the response causes revalidation to the server, so you can serve a fresh response every time — or if the client already has a new one, just respond `304 Not Modified`.
```

```
Cache-Control: no-cache
```

Most HTTP/1.0 caches don't support `no-cache` directives, so historically `max-age=0` was used as a workaround. But only `max-age=0` could cause a stale response to be reused when caches disconnected from the origin server. `must-revalidate` addresses that. That’s why the example below is equivalent to `no-cache`.

```
Cache-Control: max-age=0, must-revalidate
```

But for now, you can simply use `no-cache` instead.

### Clearing an already-stored cache

Unfortunately, there are no cache directives for clearing already-stored responses from caches.

Imagine that clients/caches store a fresh response for a path, with no request flight to the server. There is nothing a server could do to that path.

> Alternatively, `Clear-Site-Data` can clear all cache from the browser. But be careful: that clears every stored response for a site — and only in browsers, not for a shared cache.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternatively, `Clear-Site-Data` can clear a browser cache for a site. But be careful: that clears every stored response for a site — and only in browsers, not for a shared cache.
```

You can use the `public` directive to unlock that restriction.

```
Cache-Control: public, max-age=604800
```

Note that, `s-maxage` or `must-revalidate` also unlock that restriction.

If a request doesn’t have an `Authorization` header, or you are already using `s-maxage` or `must-revalidate` in the response, then you don't need to use `public`.

#### `must-understand`

The `must-understand` response directive indicates that cache storage should store the response only if it understands the requirements for caching based on status code.

When a server sends a new status code in a response which has some requirements based on status code, it can cause some trouble when cache storage stores it without understanding those requirements.

`must-understand` should be coupled with `no-store`, for fallback behavior.

```
Cache-Control: must-understand, no-store
```

If the cache storage doesn't support `must-understand`, it will be ignored. If `no-store` is also present, the response isn't stored.
If the cache storage supports `must-understand`, it stores the response with an understanding of cache requirements based on its status code.

> You can use `must-understand` when you respond with a newly defined status code.

Author: So the use case of `must-understand` is adding it when sending 206 response for avoid storing in cache which doesn't know about 206 ?

I wonder that which doesn't know about caching spec on 206 also doesn't know `must-understand` too. Is there any benefit to doing this ?

> You can use `must-understand` when you respond with a newly defined status code.

Reviewer 2: To be clear - 206 is just an example of the _kind_ of response we're talking about. 

A cache has a choice -- it can either:

1. Store any response that it doesn't understand, so long as it doesn't have must-understand, or 
2. Don't store any response it doesn't understand. 

A cache that stores any response regardless of whether or not it understands it and that also ignores must-understand is indeed a problem -- but it'd still be a problem if we don't define must-understand. Hopefully, caches will start supporting it.

> You can use `must-understand` when you respond with a newly defined status code.

Author: Thanks for clarify it.
I update here simply removing mentioning "newly defined status code" thing.
